# Demo Library

## Tutorial

https://dev.to/hbelmiro/how-to-create-a-java-library-from-scratch-to-maven-central-2cfa

### Maven Lifecycle:

1. Validate: validates if the project structure is correct. It checks if all the dependencies have been downloaded and
   are available in the local repository.

2. Compile: It compiles the source code, converts the .java files to .class and stores the classes in target/classes
   folder.

3. Test: It runs unit tests for the project.

4. Package: packages the compiled code in distributable format like JAR or WAR.

5. Integration test: It runs the integration tests for the project.

6. Verify: runs checks to verify that the project is valid and meets the quality standards.

7. Install: This step installs the packaged code to the local Maven repository.

8. Deploy: It copies the packaged code to the remote repository for sharing it with other developers.

### Maven Commands:

`mvn clean` Cleans the project and removes all files generated by the previous build.
`mvn compile` Compiles source code of the project.  
`mvn test-compile`: Compiles the test source code.  
`mvn test`: Runs tests for the project.  
`mvn package`: Creates JAR or WAR file for the project to convert it into a distributable format.  
`mvn install`: Deploys the packaged JAR/ WAR file to the local repository.  
`mvn deploy`: Copies the packaged JAR/ WAR file to the remote repository after compiling, running tests and building the
project.

**Command options**  
The target folder generated from the previous build is removed before running a newer build: `mvn clean install`  
Debug mode: `mvn -X install`  
Skip the tests: `mvn install -DskipTests`
